I'm going to show you how to fill it a
mackerel and my technique today is first
of all to take the head off the fish
to do that I'm going to take a nice
sharp bulleting knife and you can see
with that it's got a nice flexibility to
it I'm going to slip the heel of the
knife behind the fin here and I'm going
to make a cut into the back of the head
taking it as close to the back as I can
so that I'm not going to lose too much
of the flesh of the fish so maximum
yield turn the fish over and make a
second cut on the second side and then
in order to make the final cut turn the
fish onto its back slip your knife
between these two little fins and make
one cut just to join up the two cuts
that you've made previously all you then
do is snap the head off out come some of
the innards and I'm going to just
discard those for filling the fish
having removed the head you don't need
to actually gut the fish at this stage
you can go straight through the process
of fitting I'm going to start with the
tail towards me the left hand on the
belly of the fish to press that and I'm
going to make an incision running down
the back of the fish just above the
dorsal fin and to do that I'm going to
push the knife in and then slowly draw
the knife down just to open up the skin
like so having done that I put the tip
of the knife in again and run the length
of the blade from top to bottom which
actually shows me by running it and
bending the knife in there that you can
actually see the bone structure of the
mackerel underneath we then need a point
of exit so I'm going to slip the knife
straight through to the second side and
I'm going to just cut straight down that
is known as breaking the tail of the
fish using the tip of the knife I'm
going to slice down stroking all the
time so that you don't end up cutting
too much into the flesh of the fish to
actually remove that fill it and pull
that away I then make a cut across the
bottom and that fish fill it is then
prepared we turn the fish over and do
exactly the same thing on the other side
soaring
in just above the dorsal fin straight
the way down to the back of the fish and
again draw the knife up so you can
actually hear the knife pinging across
the bones insert the knife in at that
stage again straight down and break the
tail having made that at the point of
exit and then going to use the tip of my
knife and stroke away this time I'm
cutting away from myself but cut off
your fingers here right the way through
to the second side making stroking
actions put the knife down and then I'm
actually going to pull the last little
bit of bone away that then can be
discarded before we actually cook the
fish is a little bit of preparation that
you need to do the first thing I want to
do is trim off a little bit here make
sure that any bits of guts is removed
and you can either use a knife to trim
that away or if you like the idea of
eating a little bit of that belly flap
you can just use a cloth to wipe away
that little bit of gray membranes it
doesn't look terribly good I'm going to
also trim off and make sure that I've
got rid of any the bits of loose thin
and nice and white I need to do one
other job and that is actually pin bone
the fish now for pin boning I've got a
little tweezer here and the pin bones
are actually little bones that stick
sideways into the fish with your
tweezers give it a little bit of shake
and then pull it away an alternative and
quicker method is to take the knife and
just cut into either side of those
little pin bones pin bones run about
two-thirds of the way down to the Filat
the tail end don't contain any and just
by running into there we can actually
just lift those out open up the fill it
and I can just use my tweezers just to
pull those away
this fish is then ready for cooking
mackerel being an oil-rich fish is a
beautiful just grilled or barbecued and
with that I'm going to just brush it a
little bit of oil and seasoning and then
beneath grill for cooking